in the 18th year of king jeroboam Abijah
became king over Judah he reigned three
years in Jerusalem his mother's name was
my care the daughter of urea of Gibeah
and there was war between Abijah and
Jeroboam Abijah set the battle in order
with an army of valiant warriors 400,000
choice men Jeroboam also drew up in
battle formation against him with
800,000 choice men mighty men of valor
then Abijah stood on Mount Cimmerian
which is in the mountains of Ephraim and
said hear me Jeroboam and all Israel
should you not know that the Lord God of
Israel gave the dominion over Israel to
David for ever to him and his sons by a
covenant of salt yet Jeroboam the son of
Nebat
the servant of Solomon the son of David
rose up and rebelled against his Lord
then worthless rogues gathered to him
and strengthened themselves against Rio
Boehm the son of Solomon when Rio Baum
was young and inexperienced and could
not withstand them and now you think to
withstand the Kingdom of the Lord which
is in the hand of the sons of David Lee
and you are a great multitude and with
you are the gold calves which Jeroboam
made for you as gods have you not cast
out the priests of the Lord the sons of
Aaron and the Levites and made for
yourself priests like the peoples of
other lands so that whoever comes to
consecrate himself with a young ball and
seven Rams may be a priest of things
that are not gods
but has for us the Lord is our God and
we have not forsaken him and the priests
who minister to the Lord are the sons of
Aaron and the Levites attend to their
duties and they burn to the Lord every
morning and every evening burnt
sacrifices and sweet incense they also
set the showbread in order on the pure
gold table and a lamp stead of gold with
its lamp to burn every evening for we
keep the command of the Lord our God but
you have forsaken him
now look God Himself is with us as our
head and his priests with sounding
trumpets to sound the alarm against you
o children of Israel do not fight
against the Lord God of your father's
for you shall not prosper but cherubim
caused an ambush to go around behind
them so they were in front of Judah and
the ambush was behind them and when
Judah looked around to their surprise
the battle line was at both front and
rear and they cried out to the Lord and
the priests sounded the trumpets then
the men of Judah gave a shout and as the
men of Judah shouted it happened that
God struck Jeroboam and all Israel
before Abijah and Judah
the children of Israel fled before Judah
and God delivered them into their hand
and Abijah and his people struck them
with a great slaughter so 500,000 choice
men of Israel fell slain thus the
children of Israel were subdued at that
time and the children of Judah prevailed
because they relied on the Lord God of
their fathers and Abijah pursuit
Jeroboam and took cities from Bethel
with its villages
Hashanah with its villages and Ephraim
with its villages so Jeroboam did not
recover strength again in the days of a
badger and the Lord struck him and he
done
but a badger grew mighty married 14
wives and begat 22 sons and 16 daughters
now the rest of the acts of Abijah his
ways and his sayings are written in the
annals of the Prophet it
[Music]